# Markdown Reader

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

## <!-- Empty H2 -->

A versatile documentation and presentation dizmo based on the [Markdown][1] notation.

### Introduction

`MarkdownReader` is a dizmo which allows you to display content which has been written using the [Markdown][1] (MD) notation. On the left hand side you see the content and on the right hand side the table of contents (TOC) panel, where the latter can be toggled on and off.

This documentation itself is a rendered HTML which has been generated by an MD source: In this sense the `MarkdownReader` is a self documenting dizmo.

Once content in MD is written, and rendered as HTML it needs to be styled using CSS. The `MarkdownReader` provides a small set of pre-defined styles, which can optionally be overwritten based on your needs.

There are two main possibilities to provide your *own* MD content and CSS styles: Either (a) provide the URLs where the dizmo can fetch the necessary information from or (b) create a new dizmo and embed the `MarkdownReader` source code using so called [GIT submodules][2].

Option (a) is the easier approach, but option (b) offers a broader range of possibilities to customize your own `MarkdownReader` based dizmo: For example you can provide the dizmo with icons and its own title for re-branding purposes, or you can directly embed *assets* (like configuration, content, styles and images) to eliminate network dependency.

### Overview

|   | Subject | File(s) or remarks |
|---|---------|--------------------|
| 1 | Markdown content | assets/md/${LANGUAGE}/index.md |
| 2 | CSS styling | assets/css/reader.css |
| 3 | Settings | assets/settings.json |
| 4 | Paging | next and previous page buttons |
| 5 | JavaScript hooks | assets/js/hooks.js |
| 6 | Markdown headers | H1 and H2 peculiarities |
| 7 | TOC panel | hiding of empty headers |
| 8 | Scrolling | content and TOC scroll bars |
| 9 | Back side | URLs and integrated CSS editor |

----

**Markdown content:**

Allows to express content using the MD notation: it needs to be provided either via an absolute URL or a relative path which can contain the `${LANGUAGE}` variable for translation purposes.

**CSS styling:**

Allows to style HTML which is produced based on the MD content: it needs to be provided either via an absolute URL or a relative path.

**Settings:**

By editing the `assets/settings.json` configuration file the `MarkdownReader` dizmo can be customized. Although by default JSON does not supports comments, it is possible to use multi-line comments like `/*..*/` in this file: Read those in addition to this documentation for further information.

**Paging:**

The `MarkdownReader` dizmo supports paging: By embedding a `div#pager` HTML at the end of the MD source, content beneath headers of level H1, H2 and H3 are split and displayed as separate pages. Further, the next and previous buttons are then also shown (which can be hidden via CSS).

**JavaScript hooks:**

Once paging has been activated it is possible to wire JavaScript hooks upon turning to a page: for this to work an `assets/js/hooks.js` script needs to be
included. This feature allows to implement interactive content.

**Markdown headers:**

If paging is on, then the content *immediately* beneath H1 (or H2) headers is static, i.e. that it is always displayed on every H2 (or H3) sub-pages under that heading. This allows to show e.g. the *same* video (or image) on different sub-pages but each with an otherwise *different* content.

**TOC panel:**

The table of contents (TOC) panel on the right hand side can be toggled off or
on using the dizmo menu. Further, it is possible to disable the TOC panel completely via a corresponding flag in the `assets/settings.json` file.

**Scrolling:**
 
The content and TOC panels support by default a scrolling mechanism, where the
scroll bar for the content panel is by default hidden, but the bar for the TOC panel is by default shown.

**Back side:**

The back side of the `MarkdownReader` dizmo provides two fields to enter MD and CSS URLs and an embedded CSS editor. By default flipping to the back side is enabled, but is possible to disable that. 

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

## Details

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### Markdown content
...

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### CSS styling
...

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### Settings
...

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### JavaScript hooks
...

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### Markdown headers
...

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### Pagers
...

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### TOC panel
...

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### Scrolling
...

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### TOC panel
...

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

### Back side
...

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

[1]: https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown
[2]: https://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules

<!-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

<div id="pager">
  <span id="pager-rhs" rel="next"></span>
  <span id="pager-lhs" rel="prev"></span>
</div>

<script src="assets/js/hooks.js">
